### Introduction:

The R script is used to get and clean the datasets collected from the accelerometers from the Samsung Galaxy S smartphone.
 * The website for the raw data is: http://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/Human+Activity+Recognition+Using+Smartphones
 * The data for this analysis project can be downloaded from: https://d396qusza40orc.cloudfront.net/getdata%2Fprojectfiles%2FUCI%20HAR%20Dataset.zip

The goal here is to create one tidy data set with the average of measurements on the mean and standard deviation for each activity and each subject.

To run the R script below, please download and unzip the data set in the folder 'UCI HAR Dataset' under your working directory. Please don't change any folder or file in 'UCI HAR Dataset'.


### Description of the analysis script:

1. read in tables of features and activity_label which are names of measurements and activity labels respectively
2. read in X_train data set which is the training set of measurements
3. asssign features to colnames of X_train
4. read in y_train data set which is activity list
5. left join y_train and activity_label tables to get activity label for each activity
6. read in subject_train data which is the subject list
7. combine datasets from step 3, 5, 6 into one single table for training set
8. repeat steps 2-7 for testing set
9. combine training set and testing set into one data frame
10. select columns for mean and standard deviation measurements only
11. clean the column names
12. group the data set from step 11 by subject and activity
13. calculate mean of those measurements selected for each subject and activity, generating the tidydata
14. write the tidydata to a text file
15. read in the text file to double check



### The files in the repo:

1. R script run_analysis.R: get the raw data and clean it to generate a tidy data set
2. Text file Tidydata.txt: tidy data set in text file generated by the R script
3. README: describe how the script works
4. Code Book: describe the variables

